Styling from the inside, okay.
Let's say we have control we
can author the web component
these are Rs CSS variables and
we talked about this a little bit before.
CSS Custom properties,
that's their official name are in
a type of inheritable style.
They cascade down through elements.
And so we can set our BG variable and
our dash dash text variable, and
we can alter the web component, the inside
of the web component from the outside.
So, are alert,
we're setting that on the outside and
then inside, it's actually looking for
some variables.
It says if you define that variable,
I will render that variable.
I know how to do that.
So, this all depends on the plugin,
you know that shadow scroll plugin I used,
that had them two up,
that has some variables that you can
use to style inside the accent color.
This is a real good way for
you as a component author to appears
designers [LAUGH] but to offer a little
bit of customization that might get
some mileage out of your component.
That's colors, that's padding that's like
specific sizes or something like that.
If you can variable eyes those parameters,
you can basically you don't have to
make 10 copies of the same button.
Just to appease everyone
in the organization.
Does that sounds pretty good?
Offer a little customizability
goes a long way.
Okay, pre-defined themes is another
thing that web components do.
I think of like the Gmail comfy cozy,
switcher UI,
you can offer these sort of
things in your web components.
This customer I have like a, a warning or
a danger warning is yellow,,
red is danger.
Offering these like controls
is super helpful for, again,
sort of like pre-defined styles and
themes, sizing colors.
Maybe you don't want your designers
inventing their own, or whoever,
developers, inventing
their own padding system,
maybe you give them one of two or
three choices.
And where I see this working out well too
is kind of if you have a CMS integration
or something like that.
And they can just specify how much
padding they want on the alert or the.
The how big it needs to be or
something like that or a theme.
This is the special event one or
something like that.
So yes, we have a question.
>> Theme is not a reserved keyword in
the spec, it's just a best practice.
>> Yeah, just a best practice.
This could be sighs, this could
be whatever you want to call it.
So that attribute is
something you program.
I can show you I think in here.
Scrolling, scrolling, scrolling,
I defined it in my properties.
So I'm making a custom property.
I also have one for icon, so you can
choose what icon shows up here just in
case if you don't want a warning icon,
you just want a little message icon,
a note or something you can do that.
This could hook under
your whole icon system,
those icons could be web components,
however you want to do it so.
All right, all good so far, and
then this was the part name shadow parts.
This is how you get that button.
Okay, so I'll walk through it.
So I just have this.
I have the CSS, but
there's a way in your web component,
and I'll kind of get down to here.
Going all the way down.
And I added this part equals button and
just that like one
little line of code makes a huge
difference because you're
basically saying,
this is a part that you can style.
And then in your CSS use reference
the pseudo-element part button,
so hey custom alert give
me the part named button.
And the result is I can style that
button and submit a form Apparently so.
Yeah, so anyway, so
you can style that button right
there in the browser or
right there from your CSS file.
If that part has been offered.
So this is kind of one of the newer
bits to shadow do and stuff like that.
So I don't see it that often being
offered but I think it's a really great
way to be like, not just like we have
themes, not just we have variables.
But if you really wanna mess
with this part, go ahead.
And I've seen like really
radical things like for
like SVG is like you could
just supply your own path.
Or something like that it's
kind of cool options tthere.
I think this is a really good solution.
But again, your mileage may vary.
I don't know your system and
your problems you're trying to solve.
>> Does it continue down the tree like so
if that button had a child,
would you be able to style that
if you could access the parent?
>> We could try I think
you're saying a child part in
a totally different component, maybe or-
>> Well,
if you selected the button
by its name of button.
But then if that button had a paragraph
tag in it or something or a span,
could you reach that span then since
you already have control the parent?
>> Like a child, okay,
like tried selecting inside the button,
we can try that here let's go.
[LAUGH] Let's get dangerous, we can
put a span inside of a button, right?
Span, and right, and
I think the answer is gonna be no, but
so are you thinking like button span or do
you want put it on the outside or I was.
>> My intuition is on the outside but
either or I suppose because.
>> It does not look like that works, and
that's kind of the thing
with web components,
is they sort of only let you in and
then say that's as far as you can get.
So you got in the door, but it's very
specific about what you can style, so.
>> Have you tried it on the inside and
two doors?
>> Here?
I would expect it to be the same, but
maybe we need a different style for it.
But, yeah it doesn't like go through and
we can't like so
yeah so it's too bad that'd be cool yes.
>> So could you just put just styles
in that block that's right there?
>> Could I put in which block?
>> Just put another style to see if
it affects the span with the current
selector.
>> It's so like you mean like
a whole other blocker or
like add another stone,
okay yeah let's let's do that
>> [SOUND] I think like coz,
this is actually looking for
the park name that, so
I think it probably have to go
on the outside, what I mean?
So orange important,
like that?
Or maybe I'm not understanding where.
>> Without the less than span.
>> Okay?
>> The span inside the brackets
is nothing which that's, right?
>> Okay, so you're putting span in here.
Okay, yeah I mean yeah
okay we can try that yeah.
No so yeah it's frustrating,
and that's like again the foot
gun it's the loss of control,
it's the, I'm good at CSS,
I don't know how to grant that like I'm
built my life on like drinking things out.
But all of a sudden,
like doesn't work exactly but
name show parts are a way to at least
offer up our piece of the puzzle.
>> Yeah, that's what people are saying in
the chat is that you just have to make
multiple parts to expose more
pieces of your elements.
>> Yeah, and so I can show I have that
podcast player when I have.
Yeah, here we go.
This is my late version,
it's kinda hidden.
I guess one thing I was looking at for
like a podcast player, right?
You wanna like move buttons
around wherever you want.
I think it's on the shop talk version,
so that's my fault.
But you want to move things around
you want to style things a little bit
different.
Maybe I just want to delete a button
entirely or something like that.
And so, I named gave all of the parts
names and you're able to move and
delete and every single button
in the little podcast player UI.
It's pretty cool.
It works pretty effectively.
And even there's, you could in theory just
kind of change it quite dramatically.
So, yeah.